Due Jun 15 by 11am Points 200 Submitting a media recording Available until Jun 16 at 12:59am
M4 Part A – Presentation (30%)
Submission deadline is Monday, Jun 15, 2026 at 10 am (Ireland/UK time)

For submission details refer to the Module 4 Assessment BriefDownload Module 4 Assessment Brief

Objective:

Prepare and record a 10-min presentation on the provided scenario about Tommy, a child who has experienced adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) (Vignette on Tommy Download Vignette on Tommy).

Your presentation should demonstrate your understanding of Tommy’s development, behaviour, health and wellbeing in the context of ACEs that may have impacted on him. You should explore the actual or potential effects of these ACEs on his development, which may include biological, social, cognitive, and mental health as well as neurological and brain development.

Your presentation should demonstrate what you have learned about key ACEs and protective factors, and your understanding of the relationships between ACEs and outcomes, specifically in relation to the taught content, with reference to individual, family, and community circumstances. 

Presentation Requirements:

Duration: The presentation should be 10 minutes long
Slides: Limit your presentation to no more than 5 slides
Coversheet: Completed correctly and included as the first slide (does not contribute to total slide count)
References: last slide should include any references used in your presentation (does not contribute to total slide count)
Important Notes:

Evidence-Based Approach: Your presentation must be grounded in academic literature that supports your argument.
References: All assertions made in your work must be supported by evidence-based literature. This must be in the presentation text, and a reference slide should be included at the end (does not contribute to total slide count)
Coversheet: You must include a correctly completed coversheet at the beginning of your assignment (found below)
If you use the Specified Learn Difference (SpLD) version, you should notify neurosciencesupport@iheed.org of any difference for our records, if you haven’t done so previously.
Please only fill in the necessary fields. Do not make any other alterations.
The coversheet must be displayed at the beginning of your video
The file submitted should be a video file (MP4, MOV, etc.), NOT a PowerPoint file.
Assessment Weighting:
This presentation constitutes 30% of your overall grade for Module 4.

Useful Documents

NPMH TEMPLATE - Video Presentation -student number.pptxDownload NPMH TEMPLATE - Video Presentation -student number.pptx
NPMH TEMPLATE (SpLD) - Video Presentation -student number.pptxDownload NPMH TEMPLATE (SpLD) - Video Presentation -student number.pptx
Submitting a Video AssignmentDownload Submitting a Video Assignment
Recording a Presentation in ZoomLinks to an external site.
Module 4 FAQsDownload Module 4 FAQs
Rubric
Warwick Presentation Rubric
Warwick Presentation Rubric
Criteria	Ratings	Pts
This criterion is linked to a Learning OutcomeKnowledge (30%)
60 to >47.0 pts
A+
Demonstrates excellent understanding of the key concepts relevant to the title. Defines all terms clearly and precisely.
47 to >41.0 pts
A
Demonstrates very good understanding of the key concepts relevant to the title. Defines most terms clearly and precisely.
41 to >36.0 pts
B
Demonstrates good understanding of the key concepts relevant to the title. Defines most terms, though not always with clear precision.
36 to >29.0 pts
C
Demonstrates general understanding of the key concepts relevant to the title. Defines some terms, though not always with clear precision.
29 to >23.0 pts
D
Demonstrates little or confused understanding of the key concepts relevant to the title. Usually attempts to define terms, though attempts are not always successful.
23 to >0 pts
E
Demonstrates no understanding of the key concepts relevant to the title. No attempt to define key terms .
60 pts
This criterion is linked to a Learning OutcomeAnalysis/Evaluation (50%)
100 to >79.0 pts
A+
Actions are described and linked effectively to relevant sections. Clear analysis of evidence and relevant conclusions.
79 to >69.0 pts
A
Most actions are described and linked effectively to relevant sections, though some parts may be lacking in description or development Analysis of evidence with mostly relevant conclusions linked to evidence.
69 to >59.0 pts
B
An attempt is made to describe actions and link to relevant sections. Conclusions drawn but not linked well to concepts or analysis.
59 to >49.0 pts
C
An incomplete description or analysis of actions with linking to relevant sections. Conclusions are attempted but not always successful.
49 to >39.0 pts
D
An incomplete description or analysis of actions with little linking to relevant sections. Conclusions are attempted but unsuccessful.
39 to >0 pts
E
Little description or analysis of actions. Unclear or incorrect analysis and conclusions.
100 pts
This criterion is linked to a Learning OutcomeCommunication (20%)
40 to >31.0 pts
A+
Very competent language use which is suitably formal in tone. Excellent presentation skills and use of visual aids, draws attention to the relevant parts of the slides; the slides echo what is being said. Number of slides is within the given limit.
31 to >28.0 pts
A
Competent, fluent language use, meeting all conventions. Very good presentation skills and use of visual aids, mostly draws attention to the relevant parts of the slides or the slides mostly echo what is being said. Number of slides is within the given limit.
28 to >24.0 pts
B
Very effective language use. Some errors have a minimal impact on communication. Very good command of presentation skills and visual aids of a good standard; at points engages with the slides, but this is at times perfunctory. Number of slides is within the given limit.
24 to >19.0 pts
C
Effective language use. Some errors have a minimal impact on communication. Good command of presentation skills and visual aids of a good standard; at points engages with the slides, but this is often perfunctory. Number of slides is within the given limit.
19 to >15.0 pts
D
Errors in language use can have an impact on communication. Reasonable presentation skills and visual aids are acceptable. Number of slides is not within the given limit.
15 to >0 pts
E
Significant language errors have a negative impact on communication. Presentation skills are poor. Number of slides is not within the given limit. Visual aids are under-prepared.
40 pts
Total Points: 200